Hello Guys this is a very special lesson in which you're going to talk about a very important issue.
Search Engine Optimization also known by the acronym S.E.
OK first of all this course is not about you.
So the idea behind this lesson is not to bring you tips about how to rank your site on Google but the
way this course doesn't teach you only to create a simple website.
The main goal is to teach you how to create WordPress themes that is more than a website.
Over time you understand that although it seems the same thing creating WordPress seems it's a much
more comprehensive subject.
I am saying all this simply because I believe that the real response of Jamaican decides rank in search
engines like Google is the site owner.
It is the content that he or she generates to the site that you make it more visible to search engines.
However that doesn't change the fact that your theme has to lend a helping hand.
So you as a WordPress developer must be aware of the fact that your thing at least can offer a couple
of good practices which in the end will help anyone who uses your theme or if you don't help at least
do nothing to get in the way.
That said let's see what our theme can do to help anyone who uses rank better on search engines.
I start off with a header that page befoul.
In fact most of our test will focus on this file.
We also need to inspect the source code to check if our changes are working.
Let's get started.
So go ahead and open the header that page beefalo as you can see you're still including some fixed values
in the HMO code.
For example the character encoding as well as the language attribute of fixed values but these values
cannot be fixed in line.
Let's imagine your theme will be downloaded by someone in China for sure.
This person's WordPress installation will not be in English.
Therefore these two values have to be added according to the data provided by WordPress itself.
Fortunately we can solve this easily using two functions for the language attribute.
Let's remove this here.
And call that language attributes function so whenever the installation language changes your theme
will change the value dynamically.
Let's see if it works.
As open our theme and check the source code.
Notice here that the current language is you as English as go to the dashboard go to settings general
and they're going to change here to sign language to Brazilian Portuguese.
Now looking at the source code again
see here that the language has now changed.
Now it's Brisley in Portuguese as go back to English.
Now for the character encoding Let's use a fairly versatile function called plug ins.
Previously when people butes WordPress themes they used this function like info so many things but nowadays
its usage is quite limited.
Let's exclude disvalue here and cold blogging so and passed with a parameter called char set.
And that it
basically things won't change in the source code but at least we are assured that everything's more
dynamic now.
Now one very important point since we're press version for point one several more attacks are no longer
used directly in the head portion of the text that is no longer used.
Here is title really title.
So here in our AGM I'll have to just remove that.
But then you must be thinking this guy's totally crazy.
The title tag is one of the most important if not the most important of all for the correcting of a
site by search engines.
Well let me explain then or else you think I'm kind of crazy since version 4.1 WordPress recommends
that this tag is included not in the head portion but through the functions that page file using themes
support.
Yes.
Think support.
So let's open up the functions file and include one more thing support the whole thing is very simple
let's just pass this type of task parameter and we're good to go.
So as theme support I don't take that when we look at the updated source code of the thing.
Magically have the title tag.
And of course the value override according to the page you visited.
OK.
And as for the automated tags like description auser keywords.
Well we're not going to include this other meditation or think you understand why we have to visit the
Wordpress Codex.
So we are here in the codex here on this page whose link I will make available to you of course the
Wordpress team explains that over the years many of this metal tags no longer makes sense.
Like for example the keywords matter tag which Google no longer uses because many people abused it.
Down here they have a phrase that I think is great you explain this.
They say without a doubt content is the biggest contributor to search engine page ranking.
So if you want to raise your rankings make sure you have quality content OK but if you still want to
use some of the smartest acts like description for example well on the same page the Wordpress guys
explain how to do it.
So just go ahead and follow their instructions.
I'm not going to include any other matter attack here because even the native WordPress themes no longer
use this method tags.
If you think I'm crazy again you can see by yourself
see no more mass attacks here.
Strangely as it may seem ok as I said earlier discourse is not about SEO so I just went over here to
talk about some good practice for you play when viewed in your themes.
By doing this you already have a good way to help those who will certainly use or see.
So I hope you like the tips and I hope also that if you'd like to learn something new and I would catch
you guys on my next video actually on their new section.
So until then.